---
headline: METHOD -- Laura Sly
intro: An in-depth look into the life and journey of Laura Sly founder and creative director of Double Stop Designs. Laura Sly is steadily developing her abilities and skills on days when she's not working on a poster for musicians.
issue: dedication
channel: column
featured: false
author(s):
  - brandon-reis
published: 
ZID: 20241117194234
key-image: 
---

<p>Nestled comfortably in her one-bedroom apartment off of Walnut Street in Montclair, with an icy Amstel Light in one hand and her trusty canine sidekick Pixel in the other, is Laura Sly: founder and Creative Director of Double Stop Designs.</p>
<p>When she’s not creating posters for musicians like Portugal. The Man or designing the label for Coldcock Whiskey, she’s fervently developing her skills and abilities, both inside and outside of her comfort zone. A graphic designer by trade, Laura has adapted to the ever-evolving environment that is digital media to not only hone the skills that she was trained for, but to go above and beyond by learning web design and coding, and taking on her most recent endeavor - motion graphics.</p>
<p>I had the pleasure of spending some time with Laura, who also happens to be an old friend. Along with catching up, we had the opportunity to talk a bit about who she is, what makes up her personal and artistic style, and her overall daily journey through life.</p>
<p>*</p>
<p><strong>Fameless Quarterly: What’s a typical day in your life like? What are your rituals?Laura Sly: </strong>The absolute first thing I do in the morning is make a cup of coffee – San Francisco Fog Chaser K-Cups. Then, I walk Pixel and get ready for work. I also like to start the day by going on Vimeo and watching anything that I find interesting. In fact, I spend any free moment I get watching tutorials or training videos on Youtube or Vimeo, which is actually how I learned about motion design. The rest of my morning is pretty basic: after getting ready, I’m off to my job where I work as lead designer for a local IT company; I work pretty regular hours, 9am-5pm. I come home, walk Pixel, and get right back to work freelancing for Double-Stop! How pathetic is that?!</p>
<p><strong>FQ: Not at all! This issue is all about dedication, so spending your day hard at work in order to achieve your goals resonates with a lot of people. Artists of all shapes and sizes find themselves having to adhere to some sort of structured lifestyle in order to support their true creative intentions. Bottom line: you’re preaching to the choir! LS: </strong>Haha, ok good.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: How would you describe your artistic style? LS: </strong>I really enjoy working with vectors and colors. I like curvy lines and abstract shapes, and tend to do that a lot with the posters I create. On the other hand, I think a lot of my other work incorporates geometric shapes, which was sort of drilled into my brain with my web design work. I tend to use similar color schemes for everything, like all cool colors or all warm colors; I’m trying to get out of that but it’s so automatic. Typography is also key! Balancing all of these elements to achieve an interesting composition is what I love to do. People often say that I have a specific style, like if they see something I made they’ll say, “Oh yeah, that’s totally your work.” I can’t see it, which is kind of weird.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: I think I know what they mean though; it’s hard to put your finger on something like that because its so tailored to someone – there is no word for it. You mentioned curvy lines and abstract shapes – that’s that Portugal. The Man poster for sure! That was something that you had complete creative control over, and I’d say that represents your style the best, at least to me. LS: </strong>That’s exactly what I mean. I don’t even try to do that; it just happens.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: And that’s why its your style! Does that coincide with your personality, or do you feel that you adhere to a different style than the work you produce? LS: </strong>I think its totally different altogether. With my work, I tend to make things really colorful and bold, and I’m quite the opposite of that. I’m very timid, so my style represents that. If I’m around the right people then I’m ok, but meeting random strangers and interacting with people I don’t know makes me nervous.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: So you’re an introvert. LS: </strong>Exactly, but I guess not so much when it comes to my work. Hm, I guess I never thought about that.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: That’s why these interviews are so important, you know. It’s an interview, but its also a therapy session. LS: </strong>I’m going to be bawling by the end of this, aren’t I?</p>
\<p><strong>FQ: Yep, prepare to discover some repressed memories! Do you have any restaurants or bars that you frequent? LS: </strong>Enzo Pizzeria right here in Montclair, totally. That’s the answer right there. I also like Spice II, which is a local Thai restaurant; I always get the Massaman Curry. As for bars, I like going with friends occasionally, but I’m not one to go out all the time. I actually love being home.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: So if it were your choice of bar, where would you go? LS: </strong>On Monday nights, I’m at the Great Notch Inn in Little Falls for their open mic night; it’s always a great time. Aside from that, I would say either Egan &amp; Sons or Tierney’s Tavern in Montclair since they’re local.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: Are you doing what you love? LS: </strong>Yeah, I think now I am finally. For a while, I was doing what I was good at and not what I love, and now I finally found what I want to do - motion design - and it feels really good. Of course, I love art, and I went into design because it came sort of natural to me. The first job I got turned out to be a great experience, but it wasn’t the direction I wanted to go in, though that’s the way it went for a few years. Now I’m learning to say no to things that I don’t want to do and I think that’s really valuable. It’s to the point now where I’m turning down work so that I can pursue what I love. Especially when my time is so limited, I don’t want to be tied down to projects I’m going to work on for three months and get nothing out of.</p>
<p><strong>FQ: What piece of advice can you offer to others based on your own life experiences? LS: </strong>I would say just that it's ok to say no. If you’re good at something, or if you do it in general, people are going to want to take advantage of you. I went through that a lot - people trying to basically get shit for free or people who don’t think you’re worth it and chop down your asking price. Basically, you don’t have to accept every single project that comes your way. In the beginning, sure - everyone does that. You kind of have to go through the bullshit; I’ve gone through it so much. In the end though, your work has value that only you can assign, and if you have the experience, know your worth. If people are going to laugh at your price, just say no. ...</p>
<p>For more on Laura Sly and her work, visit <a target="_blank" href="http://dblstp.com/">http://dblstp.com/</a></p>
